---
templateKey: blog-post-podcast-csw
slug: /podcasts/cs/s01-e03/
author: Peter Witham
tags: ["Podcast", "CompileSwift"]
title: CompileSwift Season 1 Episode 3 - AppStore and TestFlight Changes.
date: 2019-08-12T10:20:00
blurb: Changes are coming to AppStore Connect and TestFlight. Learn about them now in this episode so you are prepared.
---

In this episode we take a look at the changes announced for App Store Connect, TestFlight and the App Store.

<iframe src="https://anchor.fm/compileswift/embed/episodes/App-Store-Connect--TestFlight-and-App-Store-Changes-e4bdtf/a-ah4os9" height="102" width="400" frameborder="0" scrolling="no"></iframe>

Show Notes

- Fully supports standalone watchOS applications
- Application Loader has been removed from Xcode 11
- There is a new application called Transporter for macOS that does not need Xcode to be installed.
- Sign in with Apple ID
- Choose your team
- Drag and drop files to Transporter including the IPA file exported from Xcode.
- Errors and issues will be displayed in Transporter for you to fix before delivering the package to App Store Connect.
- You can upload many packages at once if you need to.
- Emails with issues now include the version number in the subject line.
- There is a new Build Activity view in App Store Connect to better track the history of your applications.
- You can also be notified as the progress of your application changes by turning the notification on in the app.
- TestFlight application has now been localized in many more languages.
- TestFlight Feedback is a new feature that enables users to give direct feedback to you via App Store Connect.
- Any time your application crashes Feedback will offer users the ability to send information right there and then.
- You can customize the on-boarding experience delivered from TestFlight Feedback for your application, this appears the first time a user launches your application from TestFlight.
- When a user takes a screenshot of your application downloaded from TestFlight they now get a new “Share Beta Feedback” option to send that screenshot and any annotation and comments directly to App Store Connect.
- The feedback information submitted to App Store Connect can be downloaded and includes device and user information.
- TestFlight Feedback can be disabled in App Store Connect if you no longer want that option available to users. You do not need to release a new version to TestFlight remove it.
- 9 new languages have been supported in the App Store, this brings the total to 37.
- Right to Left languages are now supported in App Store Connect.
- App Analytics now supports macOS including
- Impressions
- Product page views
- App Units shows how many times the app was downloaded
- Sales will show the total purchases including in app purchases
- App Analytics now shows iOS app deletion from devices.

Let's get a conversation started, follow and tweet me [@CompileSwift](https://twitter.com/compileswift)

[Support this Podcast on Patreon](https://patreon.com/pwcom) for as little as $1 and help make it's future bright for everyone.
