---
templateKey: blog-post-podcast-tlc
slug: /podcasts/tlc/why-having-a-web-home-matters/
author: Peter Witham
tags: ["Podcast", "The Life Creative"]
title: The Life Creative - Why having a home on the Web matters
date: 2019-08-08T10:00:00
blurb: I have noticed how my creative level is affected by the weather, I thought I would share the observations.
---

I cannot stress how important it is to have your own home controlled by you on the Web. Yes, it is very convenient and helpful to use a social Web site service, but what if that service shuts down or becomes unpopular? Do you want to risk loosing those fans you spent time building and working with. Listen on for my reason why you need to have a site now.

<iframe src="https://anchor.fm/peter-witham/embed/episodes/Why-Having-a-Home-on-the-Web-Matters-e4squp" height="102" width="400" frameborder="0" scrolling="no"></iframe>

Show Notes:
- It will always be there for as long as you keep it live.
- You get to control how it looks and all other aspects of the site.
- You are free to change your mind at any time and take it in another direction.
- You are not relying on a service that might go paid or disappear at some point. For example, many of the social networks that now no longer exist.
- You are not dependent on a third party company and their privacy rules and how they use your data.
- Users know exactly where to find you.
- You can use the site and domain as a jumping point to anywhere else you want to direct people.
- You can use services to see metrics and learn from your users what is working and what is not. This is invaluable data.
- You can gather user information via forms and/or emails and start a two way conversation.
- If you decide to sell goods or services, you are free to implement that the way you want it to be.
- You are not forced to display advertising or other distractions based on the desires of another company.
- You get to provide the experience to visitors and potential customers exactly the way you want it to be.

[Support this Podcast and my other work on Patreon](https://patreon.com/pwcom), I would very much appreciate it.
