---
templateKey: blog-post-podcast-tlc
slug: /podcasts/tlc/s05-e06
author: Peter Witham
tags: ["Podcast", "The Life Creative"]
title: TLC Podcast - Are You Doing The Right Work? Should You Delegate or Outsource?
date: 2021-02-21T02:09:46
blurb: 
---

<iframe src="https://anchor.fm/peter-witham/embed/episodes/Are-You-Doing-The-Right-Work--Should-You-Delegate-or-Outsource-eqn5ig" height="102px" width="400px" frameborder="0" scrolling="no"></iframe>

## Episode Transcription

Hello everybody. And I am happy to report first off that here in Texas. Things are finally melting and getting back to normal. And if you've suffered through the recent weather here in Texas. February 2021 while I hope that you're safe and sound and recovering. 

In this episode, I'm going to title it. Are you doing the right work and should you delegate or outsource or do it yourself? It's kind of follows up on a previous episode. I'll put a link in the show notes. Where I was putting forward. The question of, are you making the right things? Well, let's assume that you are . 

But the question is, are you doing the right work or should you even be doing the work? We all have our specialties, our skills. Areas that we excel at and the things that we like to do and there's always gonna be that part of some project or some work that we don't want to do and we kind of procrastinate and put it off and we, we really don't want to mess with it. Right. For example, I have no interest in dealing with accounting or anything like that and so I just don't want to mess with it every year I pay somebody else to do my taxes because they're professional and they're going to do it so much better than I am. And I give them the data that they need to get that done. And I'm also helping support somebody else. 

So the question here is, should you be doing the same for whatever that task or tasks that you don't want to be doing? 

If you are working on something by yourself or with a small team of people. You really don't have the time to do everything. And that's really what it comes down to. You need to be spending your time on the things that you want to do and that you excel at. And those other areas you'd need to stop and say to yourself, am I better served probably spending some money to have someone else do it for me, they're probably going to do a better, they're probably going to do it quicker and I don't have to fill my brain space with this task. Or tasks. So you need to ask yourself that question for me. I think the answer is yes. You should hand off those tasks to somebody else. 

It's complicated now it's not a case of, we just make something, we put it out there in the market and people buy it or maybe you just want to have time available to make things . Things are so complicated these days, especially if you're selling , you've got the social media, you've got the marketing, you've got the websites, you've got the whatever else, promotional material. 

Maybe their in-person appearances, signing books. All of those kinds of things, appearing at galleries, whatever it may be. Then on top of that, there's the maintenance.  If you've got a website, for example, you have to maintain it. You have to update it. You've got to put out blog posts, you've got to keep it alive so that people know that, this thing, whatever it is is active. And that also helps with the search engine optimization. 

So there's all of these areas that frankly, you just don't have time to become an expert at everything. And unfortunately, with the way competition is these days. If you're doing something to put it out there on a market. 

You all going to have to compete. And that means that you really need to be doing things the best possible way you can and then that means you've got to stay on top of that. So now on top of everything else, you've got to be learning the latest search engine optimization techniques or whatever it may be.

Navigating through 10 different social media platforms to keep promoting the things you need to promote. You just don't have the time. None of us do. We can't possibly do all of that and stay on top of it and stay timely. For example, this podcast, I put aside time to make this podcast and edit it and produce it myself and put it out there. Because I love doing it. 

But if this was a podcast with someone else I may have to outsource some of that. I certainly couldn't keep editing every day for example, once a week is no problem. But I certainly couldn't do this every day and stay on top of it. So I'd have to think about out sourcing.

Other areas you may not be a graphic artist , so maybe you need somebody else to create a good logo for your good page design and layout. These are all things that are best looked at and admitting to yourself, to get the true value out of this and to give the project or whatever it is, the task the time and attention that it deserves I need to out source to someone else. Now there are plenty of services out there. There's a massive amount of services out there. Where you can find just about anybody to do anything you, you need done. Whatever it may be. A perfect example of that is the [fiverr website](https://fiverr.com), where you can go there, you can search for whatever it is that you need done,  it's going to return  results of people offering those services. 

Flip this the other way round though. Maybe you want to offer your services well , again, there's plenty of sites where you can go and do that. Fiverr again is another one. You can submit as much as you can consume so you could offer your services. Maybe you are a copywriter, maybe you're a logo designer,   whatever it may be, whatever that creative field is that you have, you could flip it on its head and go out there. And say, okay, I'm going to offer my services for someone that needs help doing whatever that task may be. Who knows maybe that starts a relationship where you can have some kind of a barter system going on. Maybe you could do some design work for an accountant and the accountant could do your accounts for you. 

You really have to stop and think about these things these days because they're so important.

So I just wanted to put that out there this week and just remember to ask yourself. Is this a task I need to be doing, or can it be delegated or outsourced to someone else? And I can focus on the tasks that I do need to be doing. 

So think about that. I'd love to know what you think about it. You can reach out to me. You can go to [Twitter @grfxmedia](https://twitter.com/grfxmedia), you can also go to [grfxmedia.com](https://grfxmedia.com). And of course you can reply in the comments. If you follow the link to this podcast. On anchor, you can also leave audio comments, which I can either play and respond to any episode or , maybe you have questions, so take advantage of that. There'll be a link in the show notes. I would love to hear from you and love to hear what you think, and maybe even start a conversation there. Maybe there's something I can do to help you, or maybe there's something you can do to help me. 

With that take care, stay warm, stay safe. We'll speak next time.
